.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOReadObjects 3Vi "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOReadObjects \- read a series of objects from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include \fB<stdio>\fP
#include \fB<vista/file.h>\fP
.PP
.ft B
int VistaIOReadObjects (\fIfile\fP, \fIrepn\fP, \fIattributes\fP, \fIobjects\fP)
.RS
FILE *\fIfile\fP;
VistaIORepnKind \fIrepn\fP;
VistaIOAttrList *\fIattributes\fP;
VistaIOPointer (*\fIobjects\fP)[];
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfile\fP 10n
Specifies the open stream from which the objects should be read.
.IP \fIrepn\fP
Specifies the kind of objects sought.
.IP \fIattributes\fP
Returns a list of attributes read from the stream.
.IP \fIedge_sets\fP
Returns a vector of pointers to the objects read.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOReadObjects\fP reads a Vista data file from an open stream, collects all 
top-level objects of the type specified by \fIrepn\fP, and returns those 
objects separately from the file's other contents. It is used by 
\fBVistaIOReadImages\fP, for example, to read and collect images by specifying 
\fBVistaIOImageRepn\fP for the \fIrepn\fP argument. 
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIOReadObjects\fP returns the number of objects obtained, or 0 if an error 
is encountered. A vector of the objects is allocated and returned via 
\fIobjects\fP. Any other objects found in the file are returned as an 
attribute list via \fIattributes\fP. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.hy
.BR VistaIOOpenInputFile (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOReadEdges (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOReadFile (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOReadImages (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOWriteObjects (3Vi),
.BR stdio (3),
.br
.BR VistaIOfile (5Vi),
.BR VistaIOlib (7Vi)
.ad
.hy
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Besides the following, any of the diagnostics produced by \fBVistaIOReadFile\fP 
may be generated.
.IP "``No \fItype\fP objects present in stream.''"
No objects of the type specified by \fIrepn\fP were encountered in the 
stream. 
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>
