.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOCopyImage 3Vi "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOCopyImage \- copy an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <vistaio.h>
.PP
.B VistaIOImage VistaIOCopyImagePixels (\fIsrc\fP, \fIdest\fP, \fIband\fP)
.RS
.B VistaIOImage \fIsrc\fP, \fIdest\fP;
.B VistaIOBand \fIband\fP;
.RE
.fi
.PP
.B VistaIOImage VistaIOCopyImageAttrs (\fIsrc\fP, \fIdest\fP)
.RS
.B VistaIOImage \fIsrc\fP, \fIdest\fP;
.RE
.PP
.B VistaIOImage VistaIOCopyImage (\fIsrc\fP, \fIdest\fP, \fIband\fP)
.RS
.B VistaIOImage \fIsrc\fP, \fIdest\fP;
.B VistaIOBand \fIband\fP;
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIsrc\fP 10n
Specifies the source image.
.IP \fIdest\fP
May specify a destination image; or may be
.SB NULL
to indicate that a new destination image should be created.
.IP \fIband\fP
May specify a particular band of the source image to be copied,
or may be the constant \fBVistaIOAllBands\fP to indicate that all bands 
of the source image should be copied.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOCopyImagePixels\fP copies pixel values from the source image to the
destination image. (No other image properties are copied.)
.PP
\fBVistaIOCopyImageAttrs\fP copies attributes from the source image to the 
destination image. (No pixel values are copied.) If the destination image 
already has an attribute list, it is first deleted. Then the destination 
image is given a copy of the source image's attribute list. Finally, if the 
source and destination images do not have the same number of bands then the 
destination image's band interpretation attributes may be edited to ensure 
their validity:
.RS 2n 
.IP \(bu 2n
if they do not have the same number of bands then (a) any band 
interpretation attributes, such as \fBframe_interp\fP and 
\fBcolor_interp\fP, are deleted from the destination image's copy; (b) the 
size of the destination image's component dimension (\fBncomponents\fP) is 
set equal to its number of bands; and (c) the sizes of its other band 
interpretation dimensions (\fBnframes\fP, \fBnviewpoints\fP, and 
\fBncolors\fP) are set to 1.
.IP \(bu
if they have the same number of bands then (a) all attributes are copied
unchanged from the source image to the destination image; and (b) the sizes
of the band interpretation dimensions are copied as well.
.RE
.PP
\fBVistaIOCopyImage\fP copies both pixel values and attributes from one image to
the other. It is equivalent to calling both \fBVistaIOCopyImagePixels\fP and
\fBVistaIOCopyImageAttrs\fP.
.PP
You can specify 
.SB NULL
as a destination image to any of these routines; they will then create an
appropriate destination image, copy to it, and return it. If you supply a
destination image to \fBVistaIOCopyImage\fP or \fBVistaIOCopyImagePixels\fP, it must
have the same number of rows, number of columns, and pixel representation
as the source image; also, it must have a number of bands consistent with
\fIsrc\fP and \fIband\fP.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Each of these routines returns the destination image if it is successful
and
.SB NULL
otherwise.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOCopyBand (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOCombineBands (3Vi)
.BR VistaIOImage (3Vi),

.ad
.hy
.SH NOTES
\fBVistaIOCopyAttrList\fP(3Vi) is used to copy attributes from the source image 
to the destination image. Thus the destination image's attribute list 
contains its own copy of each attribute value \(em except that for a 
\fBVistaIOPointer\fP value, the pointer is copied but not the (opaque) data 
structure to which it points. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "``Band \fIband\fP referenced in image of \fInbands\fP band(s).''"
The \fIband\fP argument is invalid given the number of bands in \fIsrc\fP.
.IP "``Destination image has \fIdest_nbands\fP bands; \fIsrc_nbands\fP expected.''"
A destination image was specified but it has the wrong number of bands.
If \fIband\fP is \fBVistaIOAllBands\fP, the destination image must have the same
number of bands as the source image. Otherwise, it must have a single
band.
.IP "``Destination image has \fIdest_prop\fP \fIproperty\fP; \fIsrc_prop\fP expected.''"
\fIProperty\fP is one of ``pixels'', ``rows'', or ``columns''.
A destination image was specified but it does not have the same
pixel representation, number of rows, and number of columns as the
source image.
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
