.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOWriteImages 3 "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOWriteImages \- write a series of images to a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include \fB<stdio>\fP
#include \fB<vistaio.h>\fP
#include \fB<vistaio.h>\fP
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOBoolean VistaIOWriteImages (\fIfile\fP, \fIattributes\fP, \fInimages\fP, \fIimages\fP)
.RS
FILE *\fIfile\fP;
VistaIOAttrList \fIattributes\fP;
int \fInimages\fP;
VistaIOImage \fIimages\fP[\fInimages\fP];
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfile\fP 10n
Specifies the open stream to which the images should be written.
.IP \fIattributes\fP 10n
Specifies a list of attributes to be written to the stream.
.IP \fInimages\fP 10n
Specifies the number of images to be written.
.IP \fIimages\fP 10n
Specifies the images to be written.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOWriteImages\fP writes a series of images to an open stream as a Vista 
data file. Images \fIimages\fP[0] through \fIimages\fP[\fInimages\fP\ \-\ 1]
are written, followed by any attributes in the list \fIattributes\fP.
The \fIattributes\fP argument may be 
.SB NULL
if only images are to be written.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIOWriteImages\fP returns
.SB TRUE
if successful and
.SB FALSE
otherwise. In the case of an error, data written to the stream may 
be incomplete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOWriteFile (3),
.BR VistaIOWriteObjects (3),
.BR VistaIOWriteUbcIff (3),
.BR stdio (3),
.br
.BR VistaIOImage (3),

.ad
.hy
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
