.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOMalloc 3 "3 June 1994" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOMalloc, VistaIOCalloc, VistaIORealloc, VistaIOFree \- memory allocation functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
VistaIOPointer VistaIOMalloc (size_t \fIsize\fP);
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOPointer VistaIOCalloc (size_t \fInum\fP, size_t \fIelsize\fP);
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOPointer VistaIORealloc (VistaIOPointer \fIptr\fP, size_t \fIsize\fP);
.PP
.ft B
void VistaIOFree (VistaIOPointer \fIptr\fP);
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIsize\fP 10n
Specifies the number of bytes desired.
.IP \fInum\fP
Specifies the number of array elements desired.
.IP \fIelsize\fP
Specifies the size of an array element, in bytes.
.IP \fIptr\fP
Specifies a pointer to the old storage or to the block of storage that is 
to be freed. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBVistaIOMalloc\fP function returns a pointer to a block of storage of at least 
\fIsize\fP bytes. It returns 
.SB NULL\c
, however, if \fIsize\fP is zero.
.PP
The \fBVistaIOCalloc\fP function allocates space for \fInum\fP array elements of
the size \fIelsize\fP, initializing the space to zero bits. Like
\fBVistaIOMalloc\fP, it returns
.SB NULL
if asked to allocate zero space.
.PP
The \fBVistaIORealloc\fP function changes a block of storage, pointed to by 
\fIptr\fP, to be of size \fIsize\fP (possibly moving it). If necessary, it 
allocates a new block at a different location, copies the old contents (or 
as much as will fit) into the new block, and then frees the old block. If 
\fIptr\fP is 
.SB NULL\c
, \fBVistaIORealloc\fP allocates the new storage without copying the old contents;
that is, it simply calls \fBVistaIOMalloc\fP. If \fIsize\fP is zero, it frees
storage pointed to by \fIptr\fP and returns
.SB NULL.
.PP
The \fBVistaIOFree\fP function frees storage, allowing it to be reused. If
\fIptr\fP is 
.SB NULL\c
, \fBVistaIOFree\fP has no effect.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIOMalloc\fP, \fBVistaIOCalloc\fP, and \fBVistaIORealloc\fP each return a pointer to 
the allocated storage. 
.PP
\fBVistaIOFree\fP does not return a value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR malloc (3),
.BR VistaIONew (3),
.BR VistaIONewString (3),
.BR VistaIOError (3),

.ad
.hy
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If there is insufficient memory to allocate a requested block,
\fBVistaIOMalloc\fP, \fBVistaIOCalloc\fP, or \fBVistaIORealloc\fP will terminate by calling
\fBVistaIOError\fP(3) with the message ``Memory allocation failure''.
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENT
These functions and this manual page are based on similar ones
included in the X Toolkit Intrinsics, which is 
Copyright 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
and Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts.
