.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOSelectBand 3Vi "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOSelectBand \- select bands of image pixels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "#include <vista/VistaIOImage.h>"
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOBoolean VistaIOSelectBand (\fIroutine\fP, \fIimage\fP, \fIband\fP, \fInpixels\fP, \
\fIfirst_pixel\fP)
.RS
VistaIOStringConst \fIroutine\fP;
VistaIOImage \fIimage\fP;
VistaIOBand \fIband\fP;
int *\fInpixels\fP;
VistaIOPointer *\fIfirst_pixel\fP;
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIroutine\fP 10n
Names the routine that is using \fBVistaIOSelectBand\fP to check its arguments. 
This name is included in any error messages produced by \fBVistaIOSelectBand\fP.
.IP \fIimage\fP
Specifies the image whose pixels are to be selected.
.IP \fIband\fP
May specify a particular band of the image to be selected,
or may be \fBVistaIOAllBands\fP to indicate that all bands of the image
should be selected.
.IP \fInpixels\fP
Returns the number of pixels selected, or may be
.SB NULL\c
.
.IP \fIfirst_pixel\fP
Returns the address of the first pixel selected, or may be
.SB NULL\c
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOSelectBand\fP selects one or all bands of an image for processing.
.PP
The \fIimage\fP argument specifies the image, and \fIband\fP specifies 
either a single band or all bands of that image. \fBVistaIOSelectBand\fP checks 
the validity of those two arguments, then returns via \fInpixels\fP and 
\fIfirst_pixel\fP the number and location of the selected pixels. (The 
pixels will be occupying a contiguous block of memory.) Either
\fInpixels\fP or \fIfirst_pixel\fP may be
.SB NULL
if the corresponding return value is wanted.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIOSelectBand\fP returns 
.SB TRUE
if its \fIimage\fP and \fIband\fP arguments are consistent, and
.SB FALSE
otherwise.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR VistaIOImage (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOlib (7Vi)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "``\fIRoutine\fP: Band \fIband\fP referenced in image of \fInbands\fP band(s).''"
The \fIband\fP argument is invalid given the number of bands in 
\fIimage\fP. \fIRoutine\fP will be the name supplied by the \fIroutine\fP 
argument. 
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>
