.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOWriteObjects 3Vi "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOWriteObjects \- write a series of objects to a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include \fB<stdio>\fP
#include \fB<vista/file.h>\fP
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOBoolean VistaIOWriteObjects (\fIfile\fP, \fIrepn\fP, \fIattributes\fP, \
\fInobjects\fP, \fIobjects\fP)
.RS
FILE *\fIfile\fP;
VistaIORepnKind \fIrepn\fP;
VistaIOAttrList \fIattributes\fP;
int \fInobjects\fP;
VistaIOPointer \fIobjects\fP[\fInobjects\fP];
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfile\fP 10n
Specifies the open stream to which the objects should be written.
.IP \fIrepn\fP
Specifies the kind of objects to be written.
.IP \fIattributes\fP
Specifies a list of attributes to be written to the stream.
.IP \fInobjects\fP
Specifies the number of objects to be written.
.IP \fIobjects\fP
Specifies the objects to be written.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOWriteObjects\fP writes a series of objects to an open stream as a Vista 
data file. The objects must be of the type specified by \fIrepn\fP.
Objects \fIobjects\fP[0] through \fIobjects\fP[\fInimages\fP\ \-\ 1]
are written, followed by any attributes in the list \fIattributes\fP.
The \fIattributes\fP argument may be 
.SB NULL
if only the objects are to be written.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIOWriteObjects\fP returns
.SB TRUE
if successful and
.SB FALSE
otherwise. In the case of an error, data written to the stream may 
be incomplete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOOpenOutputFile (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOWriteEdges (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOWriteFile (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOWriteImages (3Vi),
.BR stdio (3)

.ad
.hy
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>
