.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOInsertAttr 3Vi "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOInsertAttr, VistaIOAppendAttr, VistaIOPrependAttr \- add an attribute to a list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
void VistaIOInsertAttr (\fIposn\fP, \fIafter\fP, \fIname\fP, \fIdict\fP, \
\fIrepn\fP, \fIvalue\fP)
.RS
VistaIOAttrListPosn *\fIposn\fP;
VistaIOBoolean \fIafter\fP;
VistaIOStringConst \fIname\fP;
VistaIODictEntry *\fIdict\fP;
VistaIORepnKind \fIrepn\fP;
\fItype value\fP;
.RE
.PP
.ft B
void VistaIOAppendAttr (\fIlist\fP, \fIname\fP, \fIdict\fP, \fIrepn\fP, \fIvalue\fP)
.RS
VistaIOAttrList \fIlist\fP;
VistaIOStringConst \fIname\fP;
VistaIODictEntry *\fIdict\fP;
VistaIORepnKind \fIrepn\fP;
\fItype value\fP;
.RE
.PP
.ft B
void VistaIOPrependAttr (\fIlist\fP, \fIname\fP, \fIdict\fP, \fIrepn\fP, \fIvalue\fP)
.RS
VistaIOAttrList \fIlist\fP;
VistaIOStringConst \fIname\fP;
VistaIODictEntry *\fIdict\fP;
VistaIORepnKind \fIrepn\fP;
\fItype value\fP;
.RE
.PP
.fi
where \fItype\fP is \fBVistaIOBit\fP, \fBVistaIOUByte\fP, \fBVistaIOSByte\fP, \fBVistaIOShort\fP,
\fBVistaIOLong\fP, \fBVistaIOFloat\fP, \fBVistaIODouble\fP, \fBVistaIOAttrList\fP, \fBVistaIOBoolean\fP,
\fBVistaIOBundle\fP, \fBVistaIOList\fP, \fBVistaIOPointer\fP, \fBVistaIOString\fP, \fBVistaIOEdges\fP,
\fBVistaIOImage\fP, etc.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIposn\fP 10n
Specifies the attribute list position at which a new attribute is to be 
inserted.
.IP \fIafter\fP
Specifies whether a new attribute is to be inserted before \fIposn\fP (\c
.SB FALSE\c
) or after \fIposn\fP (\c
.SB TRUE\c
).
.IP \fIlist\fP
Specifies the attribute list to which a new attribute is to be appended 
or prepended.
.IP \fIname\fP
Specifies a name for the new attribute.
.IP \fIdict\fP
May specify a dictionary to be used in translating the value supplied
to a keyword that should be stored as the attribute's value, or it may be
.SB NULL\c
.
.IP \fIrepn\fP
Specifies the representation of the new attribute value.
.IP \fIvalue\fP
Specifies the new attribute value.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines provide three ways of adding a new attribute to an 
attribute list:
.RS 2n
.IP \(bu 2n
\fBVistaIOInsertAttr\fP inserts the new attribute immediately before or after the
existing attribute specified by \fIposn\fP.
.IP \(bu
\fBVistaIOAppendAttr\fP places the new attribute at the end of \fIlist\fP.
.IP \(bu
\fBVistaIOPrependAttr\fP places the new attribute at the beginning of \fIlist\fP.
.RE
.PP
With the \fIdict\fP argument you can provide a dictionary for mapping 
\fIvalue\fP to a keyword that will be stored as the attribute's value (see 
\fBVistaIOdictionary\fP(3Vi)). For example, if you pass an attribute value of 1 
and a dictionary that associates the value 1 with the keyword \fBubyte\fP 
(as the dictionary\fBVistaIORepnDict\fP does), then the string \fBubyte\fP will 
be stored as the attribute's value. Dictionaries may be used to map both 
numeric values and strings to keywords. If you supply a dictionary but 
\fIvalue\fP is not mentioned in that dictionary, then \fIvalue\fP itself 
will be stored with the attribute. 
.PP
If \fIvalue\fP is a number or a character string, the routine makes its own
copy of the value as a character string for storing in the attribute. If,
on the other hand, \fIvalue\fP is an attribute list, pointer, image, edge
set, etc., then the routine stores a pointer in the attribute but it does
not make a copy of the object pointed to.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
As a side effect, these routines modify the attribute list referred to by
\fIlist\fP or \fIposn\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOSetAttr (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOSetAttrValue (3Vi),
.br
.BR VistaIOattribute (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOdictionary (3Vi),

.ad
.hy
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
