.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOReadImages 3Vi "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOReadImages \- read a series of images from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include \fB<stdio>\fP
#include \fB<vista/file.h>\fP
#include \fB<vista/VistaIOImage.h>\fP
.PP
.ft B
int VistaIOReadImages (\fIfile\fP, \fIattributes\fP, \fIimages\fP)
.RS
FILE *\fIfile\fP;
VistaIOAttrList *\fIattributes\fP;
VistaIOImage (*\fIimages\fP)[];
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfile\fP 10n
Specifies the open stream from which the images should be read.
.IP \fIattributes\fP
Returns a list of attributes read from the stream.
.IP \fIimages\fP
Returns a vector of pointers to images read.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOReadImages\fP reads a Vista data file from an open stream, collects the 
top-level images found, and returns the images separately from the file's 
other contents. 
.PP
For backwards compatability \fBVistaIOReadImages\fP will also recognize and read
an image in the UBC image file format (IFF). If the first character read from
the stream is ``I'', \fBVistaIOReadImages\fP uses \fBVistaIOReadUbcIff\fP to read and
return a single UBC IFF image.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIOReadImages\fP returns the number of images obtained, or 0 if an error 
is encountered. A vector of the images is allocated and returned via 
\fIimages\fP. Any other objects found in the file are returned as an 
attribute list via \fIattributes\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOReadFile (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOReadObjects (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOReadUbcIff (3Vi),
.BR stdio (3),
.br
.BR VistaIOImage (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOfile (5Vi),
.BR VistaIOlib (7Vi)
.ad
.hy
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Besides the following, any of the diagnostics produced by \fBVistaIOReadFile\fP 
may be generated.
.IP "``No image objects present in stream.''"
No images were encountered in the specified stream.
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>
