.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOSetBandInterp 3 "2 June 1994" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOSetBandInterp \- set image band interpretation attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <vistaio.h>
.fi
.HP 10n
.na
.nh
.ft B
VistaIOBoolean VistaIOSetBandInterp (VistaIOImage\ \fIimage\fP,
VistaIOBandInterp\ \fIframe_interp\fP, int\ \fInframes\fP,
VistaIOBandInterp\ \fIviewpoint_interp\fP, int\ \fInviewpoints\fP,
VistaIOBandInterp\ \fIcolor_interp\fP, int\ \fIncolors\fP,
VistaIOBandInterp\ \fIcomponent_interp\fP, int\ \fIncomponents\fP);
.ft
.hy
.nf
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIimage\fP 10n
Specifies the image whose attributes are to be set.
.IP "\fIframe_interp\fP, \fInframes\fP"
.PD 0
.IP "\fIviewpoint_interp\fP, \fInviewpoints\fP"
.IP "\fIcolor_interp\fP, \fIncolors\fP"
.IP "\fIcomponent_interp\fP, \fIncomponents\fP"
.PD
Specify values for various band interpretation attributes.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOSetBandInterp\fP provides a convenient way to simultaneously set all of
the standard attributes describing how an image's bands are to be
interpreted.
.PP
The \fIframe_interp\fP, \fIviewpoint_interp\fP, \fIcolor_interp\fP and
\fIcomponent_interp\fP arguments supply values for the
correspondingly-named attributes. If any of these values is the constant
\fBVistaIOBandInterpNone\fP, the corresponding attribute is omitted from the
image.
.PP
Similarly, the \fInframes\fP, \fInviewpoints\fP, \fIncolors\fP, and
\fIncomponents\fP arguments supply values for other correspondingly-named
attributes. The product of these values should equal the total number of
bands in the image.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIOSetBandInterp\fP returns 
.SB TRUE
if successful, and 
.SB FALSE
on encountering an error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR VistaIOBandInterp (3),
.BR VistaIOImage (3),

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "``No. bands conflicts with no. of frames, etc.''"
The product of the numbers of frames, viewpoints, colors, and components
specified is isn't equal to the number of bands in the image.
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
