.ds Vv 1.2.14
.TH VistaIOCombineBands 3 "24 April 1993" "VistaIO Version \*(Vv"
.SH NAME
VistaIOCombineBands, VistaIOCombineBandsVa \- copy a series of image bands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf
.B #include <vistaio.h>
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOImage VistaIOCombineBands (\fInels\fP, \fIsrc_images\fP, \fIsrc_bands\fP, \
\fIdest\fP)
.RS
int \fInels\fP;
VistaIOImage \fIsrc_images\fP[], \fIdest\fP;
VistaIOBand \fIsrc_bands\fP[];
.RE
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOImage VistaIOCombineBandsVa (\fIdest\fP, \fIsrc_image1\fP, \fIsrc_band1\fP, \fR...\fP, NULL)
.RS
VistaIOImage \fIdest\fP, \fIsrc_image1\fP;
VistaIOBand \fIsrc_band1\fP;
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fInels\fP 10n
Specifies the number of elements in the \fIsrc_images\fP and \fIsrc_bands\fP arrays.
.IP \fIsrc_images\fP
Specifies an array of images containing the bands to be copied (i.e.,
the source images).
.IP \fIsrc_bands\fP
Specifies an array identifying the bands to be copied.
Each element may specify a particular band of the corresponding source
image, or it may be the constant \fBVistaIOAllBands\fP to indicate that all 
bands of the corresponding source image should be copied.
.IP \fIdest\fP
May specify an image to copy to (i.e., the destination image), or
may be
.SB NULL
to indicate that a new destination image should be created.
.IP \fIsrc_image1\fP
Specifies the first image containing a band or bands to be copied (i.e.,
the first source image).
.IP \fIsrc_band1\fP
May specify a particular band of \fIsrc_image1\fP to be copied, or it may
be the constant \fBVistaIOAllBands\fP to indicate that all bands of
\fIsrc_image1\fP should be copied.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOCombineBands\fP copies bands of pixel values from various source images
to a destination image. The source images are listed in the array
\fIsrc_images\fP, and the band(s) to be copied from each is listed in the
array \fIsrc_bands\fP. Both arrays must have \fInels\fP elements.
A \fIsrc_bands\fP element may be \fBVistaIOAllBands\fP, indicating
that all bands of the corresponding source image are to be copied, or
it may be a particular band number, indicating that only that band
of the corresponding source image is to be copied.
.PP
\fBVistaIOCombineBandsVa\fP is similar except that the source images and band numbers
are specified by a variable-length argument list. The argument list contains
one or more pairs of the form \fIsrc_image1\fP, \fIsrc_band1\fP, and it is terminated
by the value 
.SB NULL\c
.
.PP
All source images must have have the same pixel representation,
number of rows, and number of columns.
.PP
If \fIdest\fP is 
.SB NULL\c
, a destination image is created with the
same pixel representation, number of rows, and number of columns
as the source images. The image is created with a number of bands
equal to the total number of bands to be copied.
.PP
Otherwise \fIdest\fP specifies an image to which pixel values are to be
copied. It must have the same pixel representation, number of rows,
and number of columns as the source image, and it must have a number of
bands equal to the total number bands to be copied.
.PP
Source image bands, taken in the sequence specified, are copied to
consecutive destination image bands.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Both routines return the destination image if they are successful and 
.SB NULL
otherwise.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOCopyBand (3),
.BR VistaIOCopyImage (3),
.BR VistaIOImage (3),

.ad
.hy
.SH NOTES
No attributes are copied from any source images to the destination image.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "``Band \fIband\fP referenced in image of \fInbands\fP band(s).''"
Band \fIband\fP is to be copied from a source image having \fInbands\fP bands.
However \fIband\fP is outside of the range [0,\ \fInbands\fP\ -\ 1].
.IP "``Destination image has \fIdest_nbands\fP bands; \fIsrc_nbands\fP expected.''"
A destination image was specified but it has the wrong number of bands.
.IP "``Destination image has \fIdest_prop\fP \fIproperty\fP; \fIsrc_prop\fP expected.''"
\fIProperty\fP is one of ``pixels'', ``rows'', or ``columns''.
A destination image was specified but it does not have the same
pixel representation, number of rows, and number of columns as the
source images.
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
