.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOWriteEdges 3 "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOWriteEdges \- write a series of edge sets to a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include \fB<stdio>\fP
#include \fB<vistaio.h>\fP
#include \fB<vistaio.h>\fP
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOBoolean VistaIOWriteEdges (\fIfile\fP, \fIattributes\fP, \fInedges\fP, \fIedges\fP)
.RS
FILE *\fIfile\fP;
VistaIOAttrList \fIattributes\fP;
int \fInedges\fP;
VistaIOEdges \fIedges\fP[\fInedges\fP];
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfile\fP 10n
Specifies the open stream to which the edges should be written.
.IP \fIattributes\fP 10n
Specifies a list of attributes to be written to the stream.
.IP \fInedges\fP 10n
Specifies the number of edge sets to be written.
.IP \fIedges\fP 10n
Specifies the edge sets to be written.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOWriteEdges\fP writes a series of edge sets to an open stream as a Vista 
data file. Edge sets \fIedges\fP[0] through 
\fIedges\fP[\fInedges\fP\ \-\ 1] are written, followed by any attributes 
in the list \fIattributes\fP. The \fIattributes\fP argument may be 
.SB NULL
if only edge sets are to be written. 
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIOWriteEdges\fP returns
.SB TRUE
if successful and
.SB FALSE
otherwise. In the case of an error, data written to the stream may 
be incomplete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOWriteFile (3),
.BR VistaIOWriteObjects (3),
.BR stdio (3),
.br
.BR VistaIOEdges (3)

.ad
.hy
.SH AUTHOR
David Lowe <lowe@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
