.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOParseFilterCmd 3Vi "28 January 1994" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOParseFilterCmd \- parse command line options and filenames
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <vista/option.h>
.PP
.ft B
void VistaIOParseFilterCmd (\fInoptions\fP, \fIoptions\fP, \fIargc\fP, \fIargv\fP, \
\fIinput\fP, \fIoutput\fP)
.RS
int \fInoptions\fP, \fIargc\fP;
VistaIOOptionDescRec \fIoptions\fP[\fInoptions\fP];
char **\fIargv\fP;
FILE **\fIinput\fP;
FILE **\fIoutput\fP;
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fInoptions\fP 10n
Specifies the number of entries in the table of option descriptors.
.IP \fIoptions\fP
Specifies the location of the table of option descriptors.
.IP \fIargc\fP
Specifies the number of command line arguments to be parsed.
.IP \fIargv\fP
Specifies a vector of command line arguments to be parsed.
.IP \fIinput\fP
Returns a pointer to the input file. The input file is set as specified in 
the command line, or else it defaults to the standard input stream. If 
\fIinput\fP is 
.SB NULL\c
, then it is assumed that no input file is required. Note that the file is 
opened and ready for input when \fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP returns. 
.IP \fIoutput\fP
Similar to \fIinput\fP, except that it returns the output file, which
defaults to the standard output stream.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP is used to parse command line options and filenames 
for most Vista programs. It implements the standard Vista command line 
options \fB-help\fP, \fB-in\fP, and \fB-out\fP, and reports all errors in 
parsing or in attempting to open the input and output files. Its major 
limitation is that it allows at most one input file and one output file. 
.PP
Options particular to a program are specified in a table given by the 
\fInoptions\fP and \fIoptions\fP arguments. See the \fBVistaIOoption\fP(3Vi) 
manual page for the form of this table. 
.PP
The \fIargc\fP and \fIargv\fP arguments to \fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP are 
normally identical to the parameters of the program's \fBmain\fP function. 
.PP
\fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP uses the first command line argument, \fIargv\fP[0], 
in a call to \fBVistaIOSetProgramName\fP(3Vi) to record the program's name for 
future error messages. 
.PP
The remaining command line arguments are then processed sequentially. An 
argument is examined to determine whether it is an initial substring of any 
option keyword defined in the options table. If so, arguments following the 
keyword may be parsed as values associated with the option. The values are 
stored at locations specified by the options table. 
.PP
In addition to the options specified by the options table, 
\fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP recognizes the options \fB-help\fP, \fB-in\fP, and 
\fB-out\fP. When it encounters \fB-help\fP, \fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP prints 
the command usage information and exits. The \fB-in\fP and \fB-out\fP 
arguments are used to identify input and output files, as is standard for 
Vista programs. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOParseCommand (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOIdentifyFiles (3Vi),
.BR VistaIOoption (3Vi),

.ad
.hy
.SH NOTES
\fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP may modify the \fIargv\fP vector of command line
arguments.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP reports errors in command line options by printing 
directly to the standard error stream. For all major errors, 
\fBVistaIOParseFilterCmd\fP also exits the program with a status code of 1 rather 
than return to the caller. Error reports include the program name obtained 
from \fIargv\fP[0]. The following messages may be produced: 
.IP "``Duplicate -\fIoption\fP option; ignoring all but last.''"
The specified option was found more than once on the command line.
.IP "``Option -\fIoption\fP has incorrect value \fIarg\fP.''"
One of the values associated with -\fIoption\fP on the command line
is \fIarg\fP, which is of the wrong form with respect to the type of value
required.
.IP "``Option -\fIoption\fP requires \fIm\fP value(s); found only \fIn\fP.''"
The option keyword -\fIoption\fP must be followed by \fIn\fP values on the
command line. Only \fIm\fP were present, however.
.IP "``Option -\fIoption\fP must be specified.''"
The option -\fIoption\fP is required but it was not present on the command
line.
.IP "``Unable to open input/output file \fIfilename\fP.''"
An error was detected while attempting to open a file named on the command 
line. 
.SH AUTHOR
David Lowe <lowe@cs.ubc.ca>
