.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIOWriteFile 3 "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIOWriteFile \- write a Vista data file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include \fB<stdio>\fP
#include \fB<vistaio.h>\fP
.PP
.ft B
VistaIOBoolean VistaIOWriteFile (\fIfile\fP, \fIlist\fP)
.RS
FILE *\fIfile\fP;
VistaIOAttrList \fIlist\fP;
.RE
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIfile\fP 10n
Specifies the open stream to which the data file should be written.
.IP \fIlist\fP
Specifies the list of attributes to be written.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIOWriteFile\fP writes an attribute list as a Vista data file. Attributes are written in the order 
that they appear in the list. As they are written, attribute values are 
converted from internal form (e.g., a \fBVistaIOImage\fP data structure) to 
external form according to the conventions described by 
\fBVistaIOattribute\fP(3) and \fBVistaIOtype\fP(3). 
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If \fBVistaIOWriteFile\fP is successful it returns
.SB TRUE\c
\&. In this case it will have written everything from the Vista data file 
header to the last byte of binary data. If \fBVistaIOWriteFile\fP encounters an 
error, however, it returns 
.SB FALSE
while perhaps leaving the file incomplete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOWriteImages (3),
.BR VistaIOWriteObjects (3),
.BR VistaIOWriteUbcIff (3),
.BR stdio (3),
.br
.BR VistaIOtype (3)

.hy
.ad
.SH NOTES
Data is written to the stream sequentially, permitting the stream to be a 
pipe. No rewind is performed either before writing or after.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "``\fIname\fP attribute has unwriteable representation: \fIrepn\fP.''"
The named attribute has a value that cannot be converted to external 
form. A \fBVistaIOPointer\fP value, for example, has no external form.
.IP "``Write to stream failed.''"
A write to \fIfile\fP failed because of an I/O error or a corrupt data 
structure.
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
