.ds VistaIOn 2.1
.TH VistaIODecodeAttrValue 3 "24 April 1993" "Vista VistaIOersion \*(VistaIOn"
.SH NAME
VistaIODecodeAttrValue \- decode an attribute value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
VistaIOBoolean VistaIODecodeAttrValue (\fIstr\fP, \fIdict\fP, \fIrepn\fP, \fIvalue\fP)
.RS
VistaIOStringConst \fIstr\fP;
VistaIODictEntry *\fIdict\fP;
VistaIORepnKind \fIrepn\fP;
VistaIOPointer \fIvalue\fP;
.RE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIstr\fP 10n
Specifies the attribute value to be decoded.
.IP \fIdict\fP
May specify a dictionary to be used in recognizing the value supplied
as a keyword, or it may be
.SB NULL\c
.
.IP \fIrepn\fP
Specifies the representation in which the value is to be returned. It must 
be one of \fBVistaIOBitRepn\fP, \fBVistaIOUByteRepn\fP, \fBVistaIOSByteRepn\fP, 
\fBVistaIOShortRepn\fP, \fBVistaIOLongRepn\fP, \fBVistaIOFloatRepn\fP, \fBVistaIODoubleRepn\fP, 
\fBVistaIOBooleanRepn\fP, or \fBVistaIOStringRepn\fP. 
.IP \fIvalue\fP
Specifies a location at which the value is be returned.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVistaIODecodeAttrValue\fP decodes the string \fIstr\fP, returning its value in 
the form specified by \fIrepn\fP. 
.PP
If a dictionary, \fIdict\fP, has been provided, the routine determines 
whether \fIstr\fP is a keyword defined in the dictionary. If so, it uses 
the value associated with that keyword rather than the attribute's original 
value. (See the \fBVistaIOdictionary\fP(3) manual page.) 
.PP
The value obtained directly from \fIstr\fP, or indirectly via the 
dictionary, is converted to the representation \fIrepn\fP and then stored 
at the location pointed to by \fIvalue\fP.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
\fBVistaIODecodeAttrValue\fP returns
.SB TRUE
if successful and
.SB FALSE
otherwise. It will fail if \fIrepn\fP is invalid, or if the \fIstr\fP 
cannot be interpreted as a value of the type indicated by \fIrepn\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.nh
.BR VistaIOEncodeAttrValue (3),
.BR VistaIOGetAttr (3),
.BR VistaIOattribute (3),

.ad
.hy
.SH NOTES
The \fIvalue\fP argument must point to sufficient storage to contain a 
value of the representation requested. Neither \fBVistaIODecodeAttrValue\fP nor 
the C compiler can automatically check that this is so. 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "``Can't decode to \fIrepn\fP.''"
The \fIrepn\fP argument is not one of \fBVistaIOBitRepn\fP, \fBVistaIOUByteRepn\fP, ...,
\fBVistaIOBooleanRepn\fP, or \fBVistaIOStringRepn\fP. 
.SH AUTHOR
Art Pope <pope@cs.ubc.ca>

Adaption to vistaio: Gert Wollny <gw.fossdev@gmail.com>
